Matrix and MatrixView documentation (#187)
eth-cscs/DLA-Future: misc/synchronization.md

# Synchronization mechanism.

To simplify the dependency tracking during the generation of the task graph we introduced
a mechanism which generates automatically the following dependencies:
- Successive tasks that modify (write) values of a tile are ordered, therefore each write
  task depends on the previous write task.

> - Successive tasks that only read values a tile can be executed concurrently,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Successive tasks that only read values of a tile can be executed concurrently,
```

  however they all depends on the previous write task and the next write task depends on
  the completion of all the read tasks.

## Matrix and Matrix Tiles basics

> The Matrix object (`dlaf::matrix::Matrix`) is the object which manage the setup of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Matrix object (`dlaf::matrix::Matrix`) is the object which manages the setup of
```

the correct dependencies of the tasks which involve any of its tiles.

Matrix tiles (`dlaf::matrix::Tile`) can be accessed using two Matrix methods.
- `operator()` returns a `hpx::future` of a tile containing the requested tile,
- `read()` returns a copy of a `hpx::shared_future` of a tile with constant elements representing
  the tile (allows only read operations on tile elements).

Successive calls to `read()` with the same tile index return a copy of the same `shared_future`
if no `operator()` was invoked.

Both the Matrix and the Tile objects are not thread safe. The future mechanism ensures that
each tile is either accessed in read-write mode by only one task, or in read-only mode by more tasks.
On the other hand the user has to guarantee that a Matrix object is used only by one task at a time.
For asynchronous scheduling [matrix views](#matrix-views) has to be used.

### Basic Examples

(Note: this examples are used to illustrate how dependencies are determined,
however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability.
(e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted)).

- Example 1: Write dependencies.

> ```

Reviewer: I would add `cpp` syntax to all pseudo-code examples

```suggestion
```cpp
```

  Matrix m;

>   hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
>   hpx::dataflow(Task2, m({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task1.
>   hpx::dataflow(Task3, m({0, 1})));  // Different tile. No dependency on Task1 or Task2.

Reviewer: Please, check unbalanced parenthesis also in other code snippets.

```suggestion
  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0}));
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, m({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task1.
  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m({0, 1}));  // Different tile. No dependency on Task1 or Task2.
```

// Resulting dependency graph:
// Task1 - Task2
//
// Task3
```
- Example 2: Read dependencies.
```
  Matrix m;

  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, m({0, 1})));  // Different tile.
  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m.read({0, 0}), m({1, 1})));  // Depends on Task1.
  hpx::dataflow(Task4, m.read({0, 0}), m({0, 1})));  // Depends on Task1 and Task2. No dependency on Task3 (both only read Tile {0, 0})
  hpx::dataflow(Task5, m({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task3 and Task4.
  hpx::dataflow(Task6, m.read({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task5.

// Resulting dependency graph:
// Task1 - Task3 - Task 5 - Task6
//       \       /
// Task2 - Task4
```

### Exception handling

If a task throws an exception during its execution the future returned by the asynchronous call
contains the given exception.  Moreover any tile that was supposed to be written by the Task will
be invalidated and any successive call to `operator()` and `read()` will return a future containing
an exception. Note that because of C++ limitations we cannot propagate the correct exception type and

> message to tiles. Therefore they will contain a generic exception.

Reviewer: It may be worth specifying the type of our custom exception.

> ## Matrix Views

Reviewer: _"A MatrixView can be seen as a "sub-DAG" tool in the global DAG of the Matrix. The MatrixView gives us the chance to take control of a particular asynchronous step of the Matrix, and we can continue to work on the Matrix considering that everything we will do after the MatrixView, will happen after the MatrixView will be set as `done` (or `doneWrite` if we just want to release the writeability).
This is very handy, because it allows us to schedule tasks inside the sub-DAG of the MatrixView, and it will be like inserting new dependencies in between two already existing ones."_

Matrix Views (`dlaf::matrix::MatrixView`) are objects which allow to schedule a part of the DAG of an
algorithm in a different task.

It can be created from a Matrix or from another MatrixView which will be indicated as "parent matrix".
Both constant and non-constant views are available. The main difference is that `operator()`
is not allowed for constant matrices as only read-only tasks can be performed on its tiles.

When a matrix view is created each successive call of `operator()` and `read()` on the parent matrix
will return futures which depend on the tasks scheduled with the futures obtained by the matrix view.

> It can be noted that it is possible to transfer the scheduling on only a part of the tiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to transfer the scheduling of all or just a subset of the tiles.
```

Currently it can be specified with the `uplo` parameter if:
- all the tiles or
- only the tiles which contain an element of the diagonal or the upper (lower) triangular

has to be transferred to the new view.

In this way the DAG scheduling can be performed concurrently on the parent matrix and the matrix view,
but the correct dependencies are guarenteed. An important fact to be noted is that the view needs to be
able to notify that no other tasks will be scheduled to enable the next tasks created from the parent matrix.
The `MatrixView` API contains 3 ways to accomplish that:
- the destructor notifies that no new tasks will be scheduled on any of the tile,
- `done(tile_index)` notifies that no new task will be scheduled on the tile with the given index
(After this call any use of `operator()` or `read()` with the same tile index will return an error.),
- `doneWrite(tile_index)` notifies that no new read-write task will be scheduled on the tile with the given index
(After this call any use of `operator()` with the same tile index will return an error.).

> It has to be noted that read-only task of the parent matrix and of the View can be performed at the same time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has to be noted that read-only tasks of the parent matrix and of the View can be performed at the same time
```

  Matrix m;

  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, m({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task1.
  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m({0, 1})));  // Different tile. No dependency on Task1 or Task2.

  MatrixView mv(UpLo::General, m);

  hpx::dataflow(Task4, m({0, 0})));  // Depends on done notification and Task6
  hpx::dataflow(Task5, m({0, 1})));  // Depends on done notification and Task7
  hpx::dataflow(Task6, mv({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task2.
  hpx::dataflow(Task7, mv({0, 1})));  // Depends on Task3.

  mv.done({0, 0});
  mv.done({0, 1});

// Resulting dependency graph:
// Task1 - Task2 - Task6 ~ Task4
//
// Task3 - Task7 ~ Task5
//
// Note the that the ~ dependencies include the dependency on the call to done().
```
- Example 3: Read cuncurrency.
```
  Matrix m;

  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, m.read({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task1

  MatrixView mv(UpLo::General, m);

  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m.read({0, 0})));  // Depends on doneWrite notification and Task5
  hpx::dataflow(Task4, mv.read({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task2.
  hpx::dataflow(Task5, mv({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task2 and Task4.
  hpx::dataflow(Task6, mv.read({0, 0})));  // Depends on Task5.

>   mv.doneWrite({0, 0});

Reviewer: I'm not sure if putting this call in the "middle" of the dag construction can be useful or misleading.

Author: Yes, the positions of done and doneWrite are a bit messed up.
I would put them as soon as they can be called, i.e.:

- doneWrite after creation of task5
- done after task6

What do you think?

however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability.
(e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted)).

- Example 1: Returning Tiles.
```
Tile&& Task1(hpx::future<Tile>&& future) {
  auto tile = future.get();
  // Do some work

  return std::move(tile);
}

  Matrix m;

  auto future1 = hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, m.read({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task3 (The Tile used in Task1 is still available in future1).

  hpx::dataflow(Task3, future1);  // Depends on Task1.

// Resulting dependency graph:
// Task1 - Task3 - Task2
```
- Example 2: Deadlock returning Tiles.
```
Tile&& Task1(hpx::future<Tile>&& future) {
  auto tile = future.get();
  // Do some work

  return std::move(tile);
}

  Matrix m;

  auto future1 = hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  auto future2 = hpx::dataflow(Task2, m.read({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task3 (The Tile used in Task1 is still available in future1).

  future2.get();  // DEADLOCK! Task2 is not ready yet, and cannot get ready because the destructor of the Tile in future1 will not be called.

  hpx::dataflow(Task3, future1);  // Depends on Task1.
```

> - Example 3: Deadlock returning Tiles (2).

Reviewer: IMHO, this is the most subtle and clear example!

```
- Example 4: Deadlock shared future scope.
```
  Matrix m;

  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  auto shared_future = matrix.read({0, 0});
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, shared_future);  // Depends on Task1.
  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m.read({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task1.

  auto future4 = hpx::dataflow(Task4, m({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task2 and Task3.

  future4.get();  // DEADLOCK! Task4 is not ready yet, and cannot get ready because the destructor of the Tile in shared_future will not be called.
```
- Example 4 fixed: Deadlock shared future scope.
```
  Matrix m;

  hpx::dataflow(Task1, m({0, 0})));
  {
  auto shared_future = matrix.read({0, 0});
  hpx::dataflow(Task2, shared_future);  // Depends on Task1.
  hpx::dataflow(Task3, m.read({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task1.
  }  // shared_future goes out of scope here.
  auto future4 = hpx::dataflow(Task4, m({0, 0}));  // Depends on Task2 and Task3.

  future4.get();  // Task4 may not be ready yet, but it will get ready after the completion of Task4.
```

## Implementation details

To simplify the understanding of the dependencies mechanism we explain it for simple cases and we will add
other features one by one.

> The simplest case includes constant matrices with read-only tiles. In this case only a shared future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Matrix mechanism
The simplest case includes constant matrices with read-only tiles. In this case only a shared future
```

such that when all the tasks complete no copies of the shared future remain and the destructor of the tile is called.
On the other hand the shared future is the main change to handle the read-only case.
A call to `read()` first checks if the shared future is valid. If it is not it means that
a read-write operation was scheduled before and the shared future has to be constructed.
The mechanism is similar to the one used in `operator()` with the only difference that
the future contains a tile with constant element and it is transformed in a shared future.
A copy of the shared future is stored in the matrix for successive call to `read()` which simply return
the stored object.
Figure 1 shows how the mechanism works, while Figure 2 contains the legend of the notation used.

![Fig. 1 Graphical representation of the promise-future mechanism for a tile of the matrix object.
](figures/matrix_sync.png)\
\
![Fig. 1b DAG](figures/matrix_sync_dag.png)\
*Fig. 1 Graphical representation of the promise-future mechanism for a tile of the matrix object.*

![Fig. 2 Legend for Figure 1, 3, 4.
](figures/matrix_sync_legend.png)\
*Fig. 2 Legend for Figure 1, 3, 4.*

> Extra care has to be used to ensure correct exception handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Async Exceptions
To ensure correct exception handling, the tile destructor sets the promise value if it was called during normal execution,
while it sets a custom exception when it is called after an exception has been thrown.
In the latter case, the call to `get()` in the continuation will rethrow the exception, the promise will be destructed and the new future stored in the matrix will have an invalid shared state.
Therefore the continuations in `operator()` and `read()` have to handle it.
```

The tile destructor sets the promise value if it was called during normal execution, while it sets
an exception when it is called after an exception has been thrown.
If the future contains an exception the call to `get()` in the continuation will rethrow the exception,
the promise will be destructed and the new future stored in the matrix will have an invalid shared state.
Therefore the continuations in `operator()` and `read()` have to handle this case.

> Constant matrix views can be handled in a simple way. On construction it is only needed to call the `read()`
> method of the parent matrix to get a copy of the shared future that is saved in the view and returned
> each time the view is used. To release the view the `done()` method just clears the view shared future.
> 
> For non constant matrix view the mechanism works in this way. On construction the futures of the
> parent matrix are moved in the view and replaced by futures of the promises (two for each tile) also
> stored in the view.
> The `operator()` and `read()` methods works in the same way as for the matrix.
> When `doneWrite()` is called the view creates its shared future (if not existent)
> and duplicates the tile included (the promise cannot be dublicated,
> therefore in the copy it is replaced by a new promise (the blue promise in Fig 3 and 4 moved))
> to set the shared future (purple and red arrow pointing to the light yellow promise in Fig 3 and 4).
> When both the blue and purple futures are ready, it means that the tiles of both the two shared futures
> went out of scope, and therefore the reading of the elements of the tiles are completed.
> At this point the main future in the parent matrix can be set. A synchrounous dataflow is used to set
> the light green future value.
> However a copy of the shared future is still included in the matrix view
> (allowing read-only operations to still be scheduled.) The shared future is cleared by the call to
> `done()` after which the tile control is fully back to the parent matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### MatrixView

`MatrixView<const T>` can be handled in a simple way. On construction it only needs to call the `read()`
method of the parent matrix to get a copy of the shared future, which is saved in the view and will be returned
each time the view is used (`read()`). To release the view the `done()` method just clears the view shared future.

Non constant `MatrixView<T>` requires a more complex handling mechanism.
On construction the two futures (future and shared_future) of the parent matrix are moved in the view and replaced by futures of the promises also stored in the view. This is important because

- on one side, the MatrixView becomes the natural continuation of the Matrix in the exact point where we created it;
- on the other side it detaches the main DAG, allowing to schedule tasks in the sub-DAG, but keeping track of where the flow has to go when the MatrixView will be marked as `done`/`doneWrite`.

For what concerns the `operator()` and `read()`, the MatrixView works exactly as the Matrix.

The new part comes when we have to deal with the extra features of the MatrixView: `doneWrite` and `done`.
These methods are the ones that allows to go back to the normal flow that was detached on construction. 

We have to keep in mind two things:
- we have to attach back two lines, future (RW) and shared_future (R) in the parent matrix
- with a call to `doneWrite`, the MatrixView should be able to continue get the read-access, but at the same time also the parent matrix should be able to read in parallel (since no other changes can be made by the subDAG of the MatrixView).

In order to achieve this, there is a articulated machinery that allows to finely control this re-attachment to the normal flow.

A call to `doneWrite` internally performs a `read()` operation, this will be the last shared_future in the sub-DAG, and it will be the one that will be returned by any next call to `read` on the MatrixView.
After that, a continuation task is executed on a copy of the shared_future. This is a crucial point of the machinery. As soon as the `shared_future` is ready, this task will create a copy of the tile (const), that will be used to trigger the shared_future of the parent matrix. This is what allows to have both the MatrixView and the parent Matrix to access in read-only mode the tile in parallel. Here there is the trick:
- the Tile in the original shared future of the MatrixView has internally a promise that triggers the future of the MatrixView
- the Tile copied, which just copies the reference and it does not copy any element, is given another promise that will set an ad-hoc temporary future.

This two tiles together provide a way to lock the future write acesses from the parent Matrix. In fact, the synchronization taks that will attach back the future of the parent matrix, is triggered by both of them. So if the MatrixView releases all shared_futures, the mechanism has to wait that read access from the MatrixView will be released too, and viceversa.
```

  however they all depend on the previous write task and the next write task depends on
  the completion of all the read tasks.

## Matrix and Matrix Tiles basics

The matrix object (`dlaf::matrix::Matrix`) is the object which manages the setup of
the correct dependencies of the tasks which involve any of its tiles.

Matrix tiles (`dlaf::matrix::Tile`) can be accessed using two matrix methods.
- `operator()` returns a `hpx::future` of a tile containing the requested tile,
- `read()` returns a copy of a `hpx::shared_future` of a tile with constant elements representing
  the tile (allows only read operations on tile elements).

Successive calls to `read()` with the same tile index return a copy of the same `shared_future`
if no `operator()` was invoked.

Both the `Matrix` and the `Tile` objects are not thread safe. The future mechanism ensures that
each tile is either accessed in read-write mode by only one task, or in read-only mode by more tasks.
On the other hand the user has to guarantee that a `Matrix` object is used only by one task at a time.
For asynchronous scheduling [matrix views](#matrix-views) has to be used.

### Basic Examples

> (Note: this examples are used to illustrate how dependencies are determined,

Author: ```suggestion
(Note: these examples are used to illustrate how dependencies are determined,
```

has to be transferred to the new view.

In this way the DAG scheduling can be performed concurrently on the parent matrix and the matrix view,
but the correct dependencies are guarenteed. An important fact to be noted is that the view needs to be
able to notify that no other tasks will be scheduled to enable the next tasks created from the parent matrix.
The `MatrixView` API contains 3 ways to accomplish that:
- the destructor notifies that no new tasks will be scheduled on any of the tile,
- `done(tile_index)` notifies that no new task will be scheduled on the tile with the given index
(After this call any use of `operator()` or `read()` with the same tile index will return an error.),
- `doneWrite(tile_index)` notifies that no new read-write task will be scheduled on the tile with the given index
(After this call any use of `operator()` with the same tile index will return an error.).

It has to be noted that read-only tasks of the parent matrix and of the view can be performed at the same time
if no read-write tasks has been scheduled in between (see [examples](#view-examples)).

### View Examples

(Note: this examples are used to illustrate how dependencies are determined,

> however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability.
> (e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted)).

Author: ```suggestion
however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability
(e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted).)
```

// Resulting dependency graph:
// Task1 - Task2 - Task5 -  Task6 -= Task8
//       \ Task4 /       \~ Task3 /
//                       \~ Task7 /
//
// Note the that the \~ dependencies include the dependency on the call to doneWrite().
// Note the that the -= dependencies include the dependency on the call to done().
```

## Matrix and Matrix Tiles advanced: Tile dependencies mechanism

The dependency are managed with a promise-future mechanism.

When the destructor of a tile obtained with `operator()` or `read()` is called, the value
of the next future is set using the promise which was assigned by the `Matrix` object.
Note that the destructor of the tile contained in the shared future is only called when all
instances of the shared futures go out of scope, therefore,
to avoid deadlocks the scope of tile shared futures needs extra care.

Note that returning matrix tiles from tasks may be a source of deadlocks,
therefore it should be avoided if possible. Otherwise a carefull analysis of the dependencies is needed to avoid problems.

### Examples advanced use

(Note: this examples are used to illustrate how dependencies are determined,

> however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability.
> (e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted)).

Author: ```suggestion
however they cannot be compiled since they are simplified to improve readability
(e.g. constructors and template parameters are omitted).)
```

## Matrix Views

A matrix view can be can be used to create "sub-DAG" in the global DAG of a matrix.
It gives the chance to take control of a particular asynchronous step of the matrix,

> allowing to concurrently schedule the work that will bbe executed after the work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allowing to concurrently schedule the work that will be executed after the work
```

scheduled by the matrix view has been executed and the matrix view is notified that

> all the tasks has been scheduled (`done()`, `doneWrite()`, destructor).

Reviewer: IMHO this sentence is quite long, you could evaluate to use two bullet points to give more structure to your thought:

>[...] allowing to concurrently schedule the work that will be executed:
>- after the work scheduled by the `MatrixView` has been executed, and
>- the `Matrix` ~view~ is notified that all the tasks has been scheduled (`done()`, `doneWrite()`, destructor).

Moreover, it is not so clear to me what you mean with the "2nd point". I think you are trying to say something like "the `MatrixView` will not schedule any additional task". In case, I would try to make it more clear.

Author: What I mean is that the work scheduled by the matrix will be executed after the work of the view only when the matrix view goes out of scope or done/doneWrite is called. Otherwise other work can be still scheduled by the view.

- `doneWrite(tile_index)` notifies that no new read-write task will be scheduled on the tile with the given index
(After this call any use of `operator()` with the same tile index will return an error.).

> It has to be noted that read-only tasks of the parent matrix and of the View can be performed at the same time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has to be noted that read-only tasks of the parent matrix and of the `MatrixView` can be performed at the same time
```

](figures/matrix_sync_legend.png)\
*Fig. 2 Legend for Figure 1, 3, 4.*

### Async Exceptions
To ensure correct exception handling, the tile destructor sets the promise value if it was called during normal execution,
while it sets a custom exception when it is called after an exception has been thrown.
In the latter case, the call to `get()` in the continuation will rethrow the exception,
the promise will be destructed and the new future stored in the matrix will have an invalid shared state.
Therefore the continuations in `operator()` and `read()` have to handle it.
The tile destructor sets the promise value if it was called during normal execution, while it sets
an exception when it is called after an exception has been thrown.
If the future contains an exception the call to `get()` in the continuation will rethrow the exception,
the promise will be destructed and the new future stored in the matrix will have an invalid shared state.

> Therefore the continuations in `operator()` and `read()` have to handle this case.

Reviewer: I think you wanted to remove this 😉

```suggestion
```

### Matrix View

`MatrixView<const T>` can be handled in a simple way. On construction it only needs to call the `read()`

> method of the parent matrix to get a copy of the shared future, which is saved in the view and will be returned
> each time the view is used (`read()`). To release the view the `done()` method just clears the view shared future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method of the parent matrix to get a copy of the shared future, which is saved internally and it will be returned
each time it is used (`read()`). To release the view, the `done()` method just clears the view shared future.
```

Non constant `MatrixView<T>` requires a more complex handling mechanism.
On construction the two futures (future and shared future) of the parent matrix are moved in the view and
replaced by futures of the promises also stored in the view. This is important because

> - on one side, the matrix view becomes the natural continuation of the matrix in the exact point where we created it;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- on one side, the `MatrixView` becomes the natural continuation of the parent matrix in the exact point in the DAG where we created it;
```

- on the other side it detaches the main DAG, allowing to schedule tasks in the sub-DAG,

> but keeping track of where the flow has to go when the matrix view will be marked as `done`/`doneWrite`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but keeping track of where the flow has to go when the `MatrixView` will be marked as `done()`/`doneWrite()`.
```

For what concerns the `operator()` and `read()`, the matrix view works exactly as the matrix.

> The new part comes when we have to deal with the extra features of the matrix view: `doneWrite` and `done`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new part comes when we have to deal with the extra features of the matrix view: `doneWrite()` and `done()`.
```

These methods are the ones that allows to go back to the normal flow that was detached on construction.

We have to keep in mind two things:
- we have to attach back two lines, future (RW) and shared future (R) in the parent matrix

> - with a call to `doneWrite`, the matrix view should be able to continue get the read-access,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- with a call to `doneWrite`, the `MatrixView` should be able to continue get the read-access,
```

but at the same time also the parent matrix should be able to read in parallel

> (since no other changes can be made by the subDAG of the matrix view).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(since no other changes can be made by the subDAG of the `MatrixView`).
```

In order to achieve this, there is a articulated machinery that allows to finely control this re-attachment to the normal flow.

> A call to `doneWrite` internally performs a `read()` operation, this will be the last shared future in the sub-DAG,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A call to `doneWrite()` internally performs a `read()` operation, this will be the last shared future in the sub-DAG,
```

> and it will be the one that will be returned by any next call to `read` on the matrix view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and it will be the one that will be returned by any next call to `read` on the `MatrixView`.
```

After that, a continuation task is executed on a copy of the shared future. This is a crucial point of the machinery.

> As soon as the `shared_future` is ready, this task will create a copy of the tile (const),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as the `shared_future` is ready, this task will create a copy of the tile (`Tile<const T>`),
```

that will be used to trigger the shared future of the parent matrix.

> This is what allows to have both the matrix view and the parent matrix to access in read-only mode the tile in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is what allows to have both the `MatrixView` and the parent matrix to access in read-only mode the tile in parallel.
```

Here there is the trick:
- the Tile in the original shared future of the matrix view has internally a promise that triggers the future of the matrix view

> - the Tile copied, which just copies the reference and it does not copy any element,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `Tile<const T>` copied, which just copies the reference and it does not copy any element,
```

  is given another promise that will set an ad-hoc temporary future.

This two tiles together provide a way to lock the future write accesses from the parent matrix.

> In fact, the synchronization taks that will attach back the future of the parent matrix, is triggered by both of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact, the synchronization task that will attach back the future of the parent matrix, is triggered by both of them.
```

> So if the matrix view releases all shared futures, the mechanism has to wait that all the shared future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if the `MatrixView` releases all shared futures, the mechanism has to wait that all the shared futures
```

of the parent matrix are released too, and viceversa.

> It should be noted that the  `done()` method invokes `doneWrite()` if the tile is still in read-write mode,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be noted that the `done()` method invokes `doneWrite()` if the `Tile` is still in read-write mode,
```

and it will be the one that will be returned by any next call to `read()` on the matrix view.
Then, a synchronous continuation task is attached to a copy of the shared future.
This task will create a copy (a copy of the reference, the elements are not copied)
of the tile (`Tile<const T>`) as soon as the `shared_future` is ready.
The copy is used to set the value of the shared future of the parent matrix.
This is what allows to have both the matrix view and the parent matrix to access in read-only mode the tile in parallel.
However, it has to e noted that a promise cannot be copied, therefore the copy will get a new promise.
(The copy with a new promise is represented in Figure 3 and 4
with the purple (copy) and red (move of the new promise) arrows pointing to the light yellow promise.)

The crucial point of the machinery is the correct handling of the next dependency
that has to manage the synchronization of both the shared future of the matrix view and of the parent matrix.
A synchronous dataflow, which sets the value of the internal future (light green future in Figure 3 and 4)
of the parent matrix, is used in this case, whose arguments are two futures:

> - the tile in the original shared future of the matrix view has internally a promise

Reviewer: - the tile in the original shared future of the matrix view **(orange/yellow)** has internally a promise
